#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
FYS4220 - Fall 2013 : Lab.
 Exercise 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Kévin Zaporogezt and Nathalie Bonatout
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This lab exercise is an introduction to the FPGA programmation in the environmen
t Quartus II.
 Thus, we discovered during this work some of the most useful features provided
 by Quartus, and the way to do a simulation thanks to the software ModelSim.
 The exercise too allowed us to learn how to use and connect the board DE2,
 how to manage its components such as the LEDs or the 7-segment decoder.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting Started
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
A - Switches and LEDs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
B - 7-segment decoder with functional and timing simulation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
10.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
4-bit Counter and push Button
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
11.
 After pressing KEY0, we can see that the value displayed seems to jump
 from a value to another, discontinously.
 We cannot see the counter incrementing smoothly, by step of 1, and this
 is rather expected.
 Indeed, the frequency of the clock is 50MHz.
 This means that the value of the counter changes every 20ns as long as
 the button KEY0 is pushed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We could see the value of the counter be incremented by step of 1 by delaying
 the clock, or by implementing a boolean which would block block the value
 of the counter after once incrementation, when KEY0 is pressed.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Float algorithm
placement H
wide false
sideways false
status open

\begin_layout LyX-Code
counter <= "0000" when reset_n = '1' 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
else unsigned(std_logic_vector(unsigned(counter) +1)) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
when rising_edge(clk50) and ext_ena_n = '0' 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
and (countenable = false); 
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code

\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
with ext_ena_n select countenable <= false when '1'
\end_layout

\begin_layout LyX-Code
, true when others;
\begin_inset Caption

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Implementation of the blocking boolean
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
